openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/_faq.adoc, before:

[[faq]]
= FAQ

== General questions

=== How do I define an environment variable?

The easiest way is to add a `src/main/jshift/deployment.yml` file to your project containing something like:

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        -env:
          - name: FOO
            value: bar
----

The above will generate an environment variable `$FOO` of value `bar`

For a full list of the environments used in java base images, https://hub.docker.com/r/jshift.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk[see this list]

=== How do I define a system property?

The simplest way is to add system properties to the `JAVA_OPTIONS` environment variable.

For a full list of the environments used in java base images, https://hub.docker.com/r/jshift.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk[see this list]

e.g. add a `src/main/jshift/deployment.yml` file to your project containing something like:

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
 template:
   spec:
     containers:
       - env:
         - name: JAVA_OPTIONS
           value: "-Dfoo=bar -Dxyz=abc"
----

The above will define the system properties `foo=bar` and `xyz=abc`

=== How do I mount a config file from a ConfigMap?

First you need to create your `ConfigMap` resource via a file `src/main/jshift/configmap.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
data:
  application.properties: |
    # spring application properties file
    welcome = Hello from Kubernetes ConfigMap!!!
    dummy = some value
----

Then mount the entry in the `ConfigMap` into your `Deployment` via a file `src/main/jshift/deployment.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
metadata:
  annotations:
    configmap.jshift.io/update-on-change: ${project.artifactId}
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    spec:
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: ${project.artifactId}
            items:
            - key: application.properties
              path: application.properties
      containers:
        - volumeMounts:
            - name: config
              mountPath: /deployments/config
----

Here is https://github.com/jshift.quickstarts/spring-boot-webmvc/tree/master/src/main/jshift[an example quickstart doing this]

Note that the annotation `configmap.jshift.io/update-on-change` is optional; its used if your application is not capable of watching for changes in the `/deployments/config/application.properties` file. In this case if you are also running the https://github.com/jshiftio/configmapcontroller[configmapcontroller] then this will cause a rolling upgrade of your application to use the new `ConfigMap` contents as you change it.

=== How do I use a Persistent Volume?

First you need to create your `PersistentVolumeClaim` resource via a file `src/main/jshift/foo-pvc.yml` where `foo` is the name of the `PersistentVolumeClaim`. It might be your app requires multiple vpersistent volumes so you will need multiple `PersistentVolumeClaim` resources.


[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Mi
----

Then to mount the `PersistentVolumeClaim` into your `Deployment` create a file `src/main/jshift/deployment.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      volumes:
      - name: foo
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: foo
      containers:
      - volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /whatnot
          name: foo
----

Where the above defines the `PersistentVolumeClaim` called `foo` which is then mounted into the container at `/whatnot`

Here is https://github.com/jshiftio.jshift-devops/tree/master/gogs/src/main/jshift[an example application]

Commit message:

Rename project from Jshift to Jkube

openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/_faq.adoc, after:

[[faq]]
= FAQ

== General questions

=== How do I define an environment variable?

The easiest way is to add a `src/main/jkube/deployment.yml` file to your project containing something like:

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        -env:
          - name: FOO
            value: bar
----

The above will generate an environment variable `$FOO` of value `bar`

For a full list of the environments used in java base images, https://hub.docker.com/r/jkube.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk[see this list]

=== How do I define a system property?

The simplest way is to add system properties to the `JAVA_OPTIONS` environment variable.

For a full list of the environments used in java base images, https://hub.docker.com/r/jkube.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk[see this list]

e.g. add a `src/main/jkube/deployment.yml` file to your project containing something like:

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
 template:
   spec:
     containers:
       - env:
         - name: JAVA_OPTIONS
           value: "-Dfoo=bar -Dxyz=abc"
----

The above will define the system properties `foo=bar` and `xyz=abc`

=== How do I mount a config file from a ConfigMap?

First you need to create your `ConfigMap` resource via a file `src/main/jkube/configmap.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
data:
  application.properties: |
    # spring application properties file
    welcome = Hello from Kubernetes ConfigMap!!!
    dummy = some value
----

Then mount the entry in the `ConfigMap` into your `Deployment` via a file `src/main/jkube/deployment.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
metadata:
  annotations:
    configmap.jkube.io/update-on-change: ${project.artifactId}
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    spec:
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: ${project.artifactId}
            items:
            - key: application.properties
              path: application.properties
      containers:
        - volumeMounts:
            - name: config
              mountPath: /deployments/config
----

Here is https://github.com/jkube.quickstarts/spring-boot-webmvc/tree/master/src/main/jkube[an example quickstart doing this]

Note that the annotation `configmap.jkube.io/update-on-change` is optional; its used if your application is not capable of watching for changes in the `/deployments/config/application.properties` file. In this case if you are also running the https://github.com/jkubeio/configmapcontroller[configmapcontroller] then this will cause a rolling upgrade of your application to use the new `ConfigMap` contents as you change it.

=== How do I use a Persistent Volume?

First you need to create your `PersistentVolumeClaim` resource via a file `src/main/jkube/foo-pvc.yml` where `foo` is the name of the `PersistentVolumeClaim`. It might be your app requires multiple vpersistent volumes so you will need multiple `PersistentVolumeClaim` resources.


[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 100Mi
----

Then to mount the `PersistentVolumeClaim` into your `Deployment` create a file `src/main/jkube/deployment.yml`

[source, yaml]
----
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      volumes:
      - name: foo
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: foo
      containers:
      - volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /whatnot
          name: foo
----

Where the above defines the `PersistentVolumeClaim` called `foo` which is then mounted into the container at `/whatnot`

Here is https://github.com/jkubeio.jkube-devops/tree/master/gogs/src/main/jkube[an example application]
