openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/_profiles.adoc, before:


[[profiles]]
= Profiles

Profiles can be used to combine a set of enrichers and generators and to give this combination a referable name.

Profiles are defined in YAML. The following example shows a simple profiles which uses only the <<generator-spring-boot, Spring Boot generator>> and some enrichers adding for adding default resources:

.Profile Definition
[source, yaml]
----
- name: my-spring-boot-apps # <1>
  generator: # <2>
    includes:
      - spring-boot
  enricher: # <3>
    includes: # <4>
      # Default Deployment object
      - jshift-controller
      # Add a default service
      - jshift-service
    excludes: # <5>
      - jshift-icon
    config: # <6>
      jshift-service:
        # Expose service as NodePort
        type: NodePort
  order: 10 # <7>
- name: another-profile
  ....
----
<1> Profile's name
<2> <<generators, Generators>> to use
<3> <<enrichers, Enrichers>> to use
<4> List of enricher to *include* in that given order
<5> List of enricher to *exclude*
<6> Configuration for services an enrichers
<7> An order which influences the way how profiles with the same name are merged

Each `profiles.yml` has a list of profiles which are defined with these elements:

.Profile elements
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Element | Description

| *name*
| Profile name. This plugin comes with a set of <<profile-predefined,predefined profiles>>. Those profiles can be extended by defining a custom profile with the same name of the profile to extend.

| *generator*
| List of generator definitions. See <<generator-enricher-definition, below>> for the format of this definitions.

| *enricher*
| List of enrichers definitions. See <<generator-enricher-definition, below>> for the format of this definitions.

| *order*
| The order of the profile which is used when profiles of the same name are merged.
|===

[[generator-enricher-definition]]
## Generator and Enricher definitions

The definition of generators and enrichers in the profile follow the same format:

.Generator and Enericher definition
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Element | Description

| *includes*
| List of generators or enrichers to include. The order in the list determines the order in which the processors are applied.

| *excludes*
| List of generators or enrichers. These have precedences over _includes_ and will exclude a processor even when referenced in an _includes_ sections

| *config*
| Configuration for genertors or enrichers. This is a map where the keys are the name of the processor to configure and the value is again a map with configuration keys and values specific to the processor. See the documentation of the respective generator or enricher for the available configuration keys.
|===

[[profiles-lookup-order]]
## Lookup order

Profiles can be defined externally either directly as a build resource in `src/main/jshift/profiles.yml` or provided as part of a plugin's dependency where it is supposed to be included as `META-INF/jshift/profiles.yml`. Multiple profiles can be include in these `profiles.yml` descriptors as a list:

If a profile is <<profiles-using, used>> then it is looked up from various places in the following order:

* From the compile and plugin classpath from `META-INF/jshift/profiles-default.yml`. These files are reserved for profiles defined by this plugin
* From the compile and plugin classpath from `META-INF/jshift/profiles.yml`. Use this location for defining your custom profiles which you want to include via dependencies.
* From the project in `src/main/jshift/profiles.yml`. The directory can be tuned with the plugin option `resourceDir` (property: `jshift.resourceDir`)

When multiple profiles of the same name are found, then these profiles are merged. If profile have an order number, then the _higher_ order takes precedences when merging profiles.

For _includes_ of the same processors, the processor is moved to the earliest position. E.g consider the following two profiles with the name `my-profile`

.Profile A
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e1, e2 ]
----

.Profile B
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e3, e1 ]
order: 10
----

then when merged results in the following profile (when no order is given, it defaults to 0):

.Profile merged
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e1, e2, e3 ]
order: 10
----

Profile with the same order number are merged according to the lookup order described above, where the latter profile is supposed to have a higher order.

The configuration for enrichers and generators are merged, too, where higher order profiles override configuration values with the same key of lower order profile configuration.

[[profiles-using]]
## Using Profiles

Profiles can be selected by defining them in the plugin configuration, by giving a system property or by using <<profile-resource-fragments,special directories>> in the directory holding the resource fragments.

.Profile used in plugin configuration

Here is an example how the profile can be used in a plugin configuration:

[source, xml]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>io.jshift</groupId>
  <artifactId>oc-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <configuration>
    <profile>my-spring-boot-apps</profile> <!--1-->
    .....
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----
<1> Name which select the profile from the `profiles.yml`

.Profile as system property

Alternatively a profile can be also specified on the command line when calling Maven:

[source, sh]
----
mvn -Djshift.profile=my-spring-boot-apps oc:build oc:deploy
----

If a configuration for enrichers and generators are provided as part of the plugin's `<configuration>` then this takes precedence over any profile specified.

[[profiles-resource-fragments]]
.Profiles for resource fragments

Profiles are also very useful when used together with resource fragments in `src/main/jshift`. By default the resource objects defined here are enriched with the configured profile (if any). A different profile can be selected easily by using a sub directory within `src/main/jshift`. The name of each sub directory is interpreted as a profile name and all resource definition files found in this sub directory are enhanced with the enhancers defined in this profile.

For example, consider the following directory layout:

[source]
----
src/main/oc:
  app-rc.yml
  app-svc.yml
  raw/ -->
    couchbase-rc.yml
    couchbase-svc.yml
----

Here, the resource descriptors `app-rc.yml` and `app-svc.yml` are enhanced with the enrichers defined in the main configuration. The files two files `couchbase-rc.yml` and `couchbase-svc.yml` in the sub directory `raw/` instead are enriched with the profile **raw**. This is a predefined profile which includes no enricher at all, so the couchbase resource objects are not enriched and taken over literally. This is an easy way how you can fine tune enrichment for different object set.

[[profiles-predefined]]
## Predefined Profiles

This plugin comes with a list of the following predefined profiles:

.Predefined Profiles
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Profile | Description

| *default*
| The default profile which is active if no profile is specified. It consists of a curated set of generator and enrichers. See <<profiles-default,below>> for the current definition.

| *minimal*
| This profile contains no generators and only enrichers for adding default objects (controller and services). No other enrichment is included.

| *explicit*
| Like default but without adding default objects like controllers and services.

| *aggregate*
| Includes no generators and only the <<jshift-dependency,jshift-dependency>> enricher for picking up and combining resources from the compile time dependencies.

| *internal-microservice*
| Do not expose a port for the service to generate. Otherwise the same as the _default_ profile.

| *osio*
| Includes everything in the _default_ profile, plus additional enrichers and generators relevant only to https://openshift.io[OpenShift.io].
|===

[[profiles-extended]]
## Extending Profiles

A profile can also extend another profile to avoid repetition e.g of generators if the profile is only about including certain enrichers. For example, for a profile like:

[source, yaml]
----
- name: minimal
   extends: default
   enricher:
     includes:
      - jshift-name
      - jshift-controller
      - jshift-service
      - jshift-image
      - jshift-project-label
      - jshift-debug
      - jshift-namespace
      - jshift-metadata
      - jshift-controller-from-configuration
      - jshift-openshift-deploymentconfig
      - jshift-openshift-project
      - jshift-openshift-service-expose
      - jshift-openshift-route

----
one then would not need to repeat all generators as they are inherited from the `default` profile.

[[profiles-default]]
.Default Profile

[source, yaml]
----
include::{plugindir}/src/main/resources/META-INF/jshift/profiles-default.yml[tags=default]
----

Commit message:

Rename project from Jshift to Jkube

openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/_profiles.adoc, after:


[[profiles]]
= Profiles

Profiles can be used to combine a set of enrichers and generators and to give this combination a referable name.

Profiles are defined in YAML. The following example shows a simple profiles which uses only the <<generator-spring-boot, Spring Boot generator>> and some enrichers adding for adding default resources:

.Profile Definition
[source, yaml]
----
- name: my-spring-boot-apps # <1>
  generator: # <2>
    includes:
      - spring-boot
  enricher: # <3>
    includes: # <4>
      # Default Deployment object
      - jkube-controller
      # Add a default service
      - jkube-service
    excludes: # <5>
      - jkube-icon
    config: # <6>
      jkube-service:
        # Expose service as NodePort
        type: NodePort
  order: 10 # <7>
- name: another-profile
  ....
----
<1> Profile's name
<2> <<generators, Generators>> to use
<3> <<enrichers, Enrichers>> to use
<4> List of enricher to *include* in that given order
<5> List of enricher to *exclude*
<6> Configuration for services an enrichers
<7> An order which influences the way how profiles with the same name are merged

Each `profiles.yml` has a list of profiles which are defined with these elements:

.Profile elements
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Element | Description

| *name*
| Profile name. This plugin comes with a set of <<profile-predefined,predefined profiles>>. Those profiles can be extended by defining a custom profile with the same name of the profile to extend.

| *generator*
| List of generator definitions. See <<generator-enricher-definition, below>> for the format of this definitions.

| *enricher*
| List of enrichers definitions. See <<generator-enricher-definition, below>> for the format of this definitions.

| *order*
| The order of the profile which is used when profiles of the same name are merged.
|===

[[generator-enricher-definition]]
## Generator and Enricher definitions

The definition of generators and enrichers in the profile follow the same format:

.Generator and Enericher definition
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Element | Description

| *includes*
| List of generators or enrichers to include. The order in the list determines the order in which the processors are applied.

| *excludes*
| List of generators or enrichers. These have precedences over _includes_ and will exclude a processor even when referenced in an _includes_ sections

| *config*
| Configuration for genertors or enrichers. This is a map where the keys are the name of the processor to configure and the value is again a map with configuration keys and values specific to the processor. See the documentation of the respective generator or enricher for the available configuration keys.
|===

[[profiles-lookup-order]]
## Lookup order

Profiles can be defined externally either directly as a build resource in `src/main/jkube/profiles.yml` or provided as part of a plugin's dependency where it is supposed to be included as `META-INF/jkube/profiles.yml`. Multiple profiles can be include in these `profiles.yml` descriptors as a list:

If a profile is <<profiles-using, used>> then it is looked up from various places in the following order:

* From the compile and plugin classpath from `META-INF/jkube/profiles-default.yml`. These files are reserved for profiles defined by this plugin
* From the compile and plugin classpath from `META-INF/jkube/profiles.yml`. Use this location for defining your custom profiles which you want to include via dependencies.
* From the project in `src/main/jkube/profiles.yml`. The directory can be tuned with the plugin option `resourceDir` (property: `jkube.resourceDir`)

When multiple profiles of the same name are found, then these profiles are merged. If profile have an order number, then the _higher_ order takes precedences when merging profiles.

For _includes_ of the same processors, the processor is moved to the earliest position. E.g consider the following two profiles with the name `my-profile`

.Profile A
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e1, e2 ]
----

.Profile B
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e3, e1 ]
order: 10
----

then when merged results in the following profile (when no order is given, it defaults to 0):

.Profile merged
[source, yaml]
----
name: my-profile
enricher:
  includes: [ e1, e2, e3 ]
order: 10
----

Profile with the same order number are merged according to the lookup order described above, where the latter profile is supposed to have a higher order.

The configuration for enrichers and generators are merged, too, where higher order profiles override configuration values with the same key of lower order profile configuration.

[[profiles-using]]
## Using Profiles

Profiles can be selected by defining them in the plugin configuration, by giving a system property or by using <<profile-resource-fragments,special directories>> in the directory holding the resource fragments.

.Profile used in plugin configuration

Here is an example how the profile can be used in a plugin configuration:

[source, xml]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>io.jkube</groupId>
  <artifactId>oc-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <configuration>
    <profile>my-spring-boot-apps</profile> <!--1-->
    .....
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----
<1> Name which select the profile from the `profiles.yml`

.Profile as system property

Alternatively a profile can be also specified on the command line when calling Maven:

[source, sh]
----
mvn -Djkube.profile=my-spring-boot-apps oc:build oc:deploy
----

If a configuration for enrichers and generators are provided as part of the plugin's `<configuration>` then this takes precedence over any profile specified.

[[profiles-resource-fragments]]
.Profiles for resource fragments

Profiles are also very useful when used together with resource fragments in `src/main/jkube`. By default the resource objects defined here are enriched with the configured profile (if any). A different profile can be selected easily by using a sub directory within `src/main/jkube`. The name of each sub directory is interpreted as a profile name and all resource definition files found in this sub directory are enhanced with the enhancers defined in this profile.

For example, consider the following directory layout:

[source]
----
src/main/oc:
  app-rc.yml
  app-svc.yml
  raw/ -->
    couchbase-rc.yml
    couchbase-svc.yml
----

Here, the resource descriptors `app-rc.yml` and `app-svc.yml` are enhanced with the enrichers defined in the main configuration. The files two files `couchbase-rc.yml` and `couchbase-svc.yml` in the sub directory `raw/` instead are enriched with the profile **raw**. This is a predefined profile which includes no enricher at all, so the couchbase resource objects are not enriched and taken over literally. This is an easy way how you can fine tune enrichment for different object set.

[[profiles-predefined]]
## Predefined Profiles

This plugin comes with a list of the following predefined profiles:

.Predefined Profiles
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Profile | Description

| *default*
| The default profile which is active if no profile is specified. It consists of a curated set of generator and enrichers. See <<profiles-default,below>> for the current definition.

| *minimal*
| This profile contains no generators and only enrichers for adding default objects (controller and services). No other enrichment is included.

| *explicit*
| Like default but without adding default objects like controllers and services.

| *aggregate*
| Includes no generators and only the <<jkube-dependency,jkube-dependency>> enricher for picking up and combining resources from the compile time dependencies.

| *internal-microservice*
| Do not expose a port for the service to generate. Otherwise the same as the _default_ profile.

| *osio*
| Includes everything in the _default_ profile, plus additional enrichers and generators relevant only to https://openshift.io[OpenShift.io].
|===

[[profiles-extended]]
## Extending Profiles

A profile can also extend another profile to avoid repetition e.g of generators if the profile is only about including certain enrichers. For example, for a profile like:

[source, yaml]
----
- name: minimal
   extends: default
   enricher:
     includes:
      - jkube-name
      - jkube-controller
      - jkube-service
      - jkube-image
      - jkube-project-label
      - jkube-debug
      - jkube-namespace
      - jkube-metadata
      - jkube-controller-from-configuration
      - jkube-openshift-deploymentconfig
      - jkube-openshift-project
      - jkube-openshift-service-expose
      - jkube-openshift-route

----
one then would not need to repeat all generators as they are inherited from the `default` profile.

[[profiles-default]]
.Default Profile

[source, yaml]
----
include::{plugindir}/src/main/resources/META-INF/jkube/profiles-default.yml[tags=default]
----
