openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/generator/_java_exec.adoc, before:

[[generator-java-exec]]
=== Java Applications

One of the most generic _Generators_ is the `java-exec` generator.
It is responsible for starting up arbitrary Java application.
It knows how to deal with fat-jar applications where the application and all dependencies are included within a single jar and the `MANIFEST.MF` within the jar references a main class.
But also flat classpath applications, where the dependencies are separate jar files and a main class is given.

If no main class is explicitly configured, the plugin first attempts to locate a fat jar.
If the Maven build creates a JAR file with a `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` containing a `Main-Class` entry, then this is considered to be the fat jar to use.
If there are more than one of such files then the largest one is used.

If a main class is configured (see below) then the image configuration will contain the application jar plus all dependency jars.
If no main class is configured as well as no fat jar being detected, then this _Generator_ tries to detect a single main class by searching for `public static void main(String args[])` among the application classes. If exactly one class is found this is considered to be the main class. If no or more than one is found the _Generator_ finally does nothing.

It will use the following base image by default, but as explained <<generator-options-common, above>> and can be changed with the `from` configuration.

[[generator-java-exec-from]]
.Java Base Images
[cols="1,4,4,4"]
|===
| | Docker Build | S2I Build | ImageStream

| *Community*
| `jshift.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk`
| `jshift.s2i-java`
| `jshift.java`

| *Red Hat*
| `jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift`
| `jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift`
| `fis-java-openshift`
|===

These images always refer to the latest tag. The _Red Hat_ base images are selected, when the plugin itself is a Red Hat supported version (which is detected by the plugins version number).

When a `fromMode` of `istag` is used to specify an `ImageStreamTag` and when no `from` is given, then as default the `ImageStreamTag` `fis-java-openshift` in the namespace `openshift` is chosen. If you are using a RedHat variation of this plugin (i.e. if the version is ending with `-redhat`), then a `fromMode` of `istag` is the default, otherwise its `fromMode = "docker"` which use the a plain Docker image reference for the S2I builder image.

Beside the common configuration parameters described in the table <<generator-options-common, common generator options>> the following additional configuration options are recognized:

[[generator-java-exec-options]]
.Java Application configuration options
[cols="1,6,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Default

| *assemblyRef*
| If a reference to an assembly is given, then this is used without trying to detect the artifacts to include.
|
| *targetDir*
| Directory within the generated image where to put the detected artefacts into. Change this only if the base image is changed, too.
| `/deployments`

| *jolokiaPort*
| Port of the Jolokia agent exposed by the base image. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose the Jolokia port.
| 8778

| *mainClass*
| Main class to call. If not given first a check is performed to detect a fat-jar (see above). Next a class is looked up by scanning `target/classes` for a single class with a main method. If no such class is found or if more than one is found, then this generator does nothing.
|

| *prometheusPort*
| Port of the Prometheus jmx_exporter exposed by the base image. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose the Prometheus port.
| 9779

| *webPort*
| Port to expose as service, which is supposed to be the port of a web application. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose a port.
| 8080
|===

The exposed ports are typically later on use by <<enrichers, Enrichers>> to create default Kubernetes or OpenShift services.

You can add additional files to the target image within `baseDir` by placing files into `src/main/jshift-includes`. These will be added with mode `0644`, while everything in `src/main/jshift-includes/bin` will be added with `0755`.

Commit message:

Rename project from Jshift to Jkube

openshift-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/generator/_java_exec.adoc, after:

[[generator-java-exec]]
=== Java Applications

One of the most generic _Generators_ is the `java-exec` generator.
It is responsible for starting up arbitrary Java application.
It knows how to deal with fat-jar applications where the application and all dependencies are included within a single jar and the `MANIFEST.MF` within the jar references a main class.
But also flat classpath applications, where the dependencies are separate jar files and a main class is given.

If no main class is explicitly configured, the plugin first attempts to locate a fat jar.
If the Maven build creates a JAR file with a `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` containing a `Main-Class` entry, then this is considered to be the fat jar to use.
If there are more than one of such files then the largest one is used.

If a main class is configured (see below) then the image configuration will contain the application jar plus all dependency jars.
If no main class is configured as well as no fat jar being detected, then this _Generator_ tries to detect a single main class by searching for `public static void main(String args[])` among the application classes. If exactly one class is found this is considered to be the main class. If no or more than one is found the _Generator_ finally does nothing.

It will use the following base image by default, but as explained <<generator-options-common, above>> and can be changed with the `from` configuration.

[[generator-java-exec-from]]
.Java Base Images
[cols="1,4,4,4"]
|===
| | Docker Build | S2I Build | ImageStream

| *Community*
| `jkube.java-jboss-openjdk8-jdk`
| `jkube.s2i-java`
| `jkube.java`

| *Red Hat*
| `jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift`
| `jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift`
| `fis-java-openshift`
|===

These images always refer to the latest tag. The _Red Hat_ base images are selected, when the plugin itself is a Red Hat supported version (which is detected by the plugins version number).

When a `fromMode` of `istag` is used to specify an `ImageStreamTag` and when no `from` is given, then as default the `ImageStreamTag` `fis-java-openshift` in the namespace `openshift` is chosen. If you are using a RedHat variation of this plugin (i.e. if the version is ending with `-redhat`), then a `fromMode` of `istag` is the default, otherwise its `fromMode = "docker"` which use the a plain Docker image reference for the S2I builder image.

Beside the common configuration parameters described in the table <<generator-options-common, common generator options>> the following additional configuration options are recognized:

[[generator-java-exec-options]]
.Java Application configuration options
[cols="1,6,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Default

| *assemblyRef*
| If a reference to an assembly is given, then this is used without trying to detect the artifacts to include.
|
| *targetDir*
| Directory within the generated image where to put the detected artefacts into. Change this only if the base image is changed, too.
| `/deployments`

| *jolokiaPort*
| Port of the Jolokia agent exposed by the base image. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose the Jolokia port.
| 8778

| *mainClass*
| Main class to call. If not given first a check is performed to detect a fat-jar (see above). Next a class is looked up by scanning `target/classes` for a single class with a main method. If no such class is found or if more than one is found, then this generator does nothing.
|

| *prometheusPort*
| Port of the Prometheus jmx_exporter exposed by the base image. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose the Prometheus port.
| 9779

| *webPort*
| Port to expose as service, which is supposed to be the port of a web application. Set this to 0 if you don't want to expose a port.
| 8080
|===

The exposed ports are typically later on use by <<enrichers, Enrichers>> to create default Kubernetes or OpenShift services.

You can add additional files to the target image within `baseDir` by placing files into `src/main/jkube-includes`. These will be added with mode `0644`, while everything in `src/main/jkube-includes/bin` will be added with `0755`.
