kubernetes-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/goals/build/_jkube-build.adoc, before:


[[jkube:build]]
== *{goal-prefix}:build*

This goal is for building Docker images.

[[build-kubernetes]]
=== Kubernetes Build

A normal Docker build is performed by default. The connection configuration to
access the Docker daemon is described in <<access-configuration, Access Configuration>>.

In order to make the generated images available to the Kubernetes cluster the generated images need to be pushed to a
registry with the goal <<jkube:push>>. This is not necessary for single node clusters, though as there is no need to
distribute images.

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
[[build-openshift]]
=== OpenShift Build

For the `openshift` mode, OpenShift specific
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html[builds] will be
performed. These are so called
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html[Binary Source]
builds ("binary builds" in short), where the data specified with the <<build-configuration, build configuration>>  is
sent directly to OpenShift as a binary archive.

There are two kind of binary builds supported by this plugin, which can be selected with the `buildStrategy` configuration option (`jkube.build.strategy` property)

.Build Strategies
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| `buildStrategy` | Description

| `s2i`
| The https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#source-build[Source-to-Image] (S2I) build strategy uses so called builder images for creating new application images from binary build data. The builder image to use is taken from the base image configuration specified with <<build-config-from, from>> in the image build configuration. See below for a list of builder images which can be used with this plugin.

| `docker`
| A https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#docker-build[Docker Build] is similar to a normal Docker build except that it is done by the OpenShift cluster and not by a Docker daemon. In addition this build pushes the generated image to the OpenShift internal registry so that it is accessbile in the whole cluster.
|===

Both build strategies update an
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#image-streams[Image Stream]
after the image creation.

The https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/dev_guide/builds.html#defining-a-buildconfig[Build Config] and
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#image-streams[Image streams]
can be managed by this plugin. If they do not exist, they will be automatically created by `{goal-prefix}:build`.
If they do already exist, they are reused, except when the `buildRecreate` configuration option
(property `jkube.build.recreate`) is set to a value as described in <<build-goal-configuration, Configuration>>.
Also if the provided build strategy is different than the one defined in the existing build configuration, the Build
Config is edited to reflect the new type (which in turn removes all build associated with the previous build).

This image stream created can then be directly referenced from
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/deployments.html#deployments-and-deployment-configurations[Deployment Configuration]
objects created by <<jkube:resource>>.
By default, image streams are created with a local lookup policy, so that they can be used also by other resources such
as Deployments or StatefulSets.
This behavior can be turned off by setting the `jkube.s2i.imageStreamLookupPolicyLocal` property to `false` when building
the project.

In order to be able to create these OpenShift resource objects access to an OpenShift installation is required.
The access parameters are described in <<access-configuration, Access Configuration>>.

Regardless of which build mode is used, the images are configured in the same way.

The configuration consists of two parts:

* a global section which defines the overall behaviour of this plugin
* and an `<images>` section which defines how the images should be build

Many of the options below are relevant for the <<build-kubernetes, Kubernetes Workflow>> or the <<build-openshift, OpenShift Workflow>> with Docker builds as they influence how the Docker image is build.

For an S2I binary build, on the other hand, the most relevant section is the <<build-assembly, Assembly>> one because the build depends on which buider/base image is used and how it interprets the content of the uploaded `docker.tar`.

[[setting-quota-openshift-build]]
==== Setting Quotas for OpenShift Build
You can also limit resource use by specifying resource limits as part of the build configuration. You can do this by providing `<openshiftBuildConfig>` field in `<resource>` configuration. Below is an example on how to do this:

.Example of OpenShift S2I Build resource/limit Configuration
[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    <resources>
         <openshiftBuildConfig>
            <requests> <!--1-->
              <cpu>500m</cpu> <!--2-->
              <memory>512Mi</memory> <!--3-->
            </requests>
            <limits> <!--4-->
              <cpu>1000m</cpu> <!--5-->
              <memory>1Gi</memory> <!--6-->
            </limits>
         </openshiftBuildConfig>
    </resources>
</configuration>
----

<1> Request field which maps to created BuildConfig's `.spec.resources.requests`
<2> Minimum CPU required by Build Pod
<3> Minimum memory required by Build Pod
<4> Limits field which maps to created BuildConfig's (`.spec.resources.limits`)
<5> Maximum CPU required by Build Pod
<6> Maximum memory required by Build Pod

It's also possible to provide a `buildconfig.yml` BuildConfig resource fragment in `src/main/jkube` directory like this:

.BuildConfig fragment Example(`buildconfig.yml`)
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "600m"
      memory: "512Mi"
    requests:
      cpu: "500m"
      memory: "300Mi"
----
endif::[]

[[build-goal-configuration]]
=== Configuration (XML)

The following sections describe the usual configuration, which is similar to the build configuration used in the
 https://dmp.fabric8.io[docker-maven-plugin].

In addition a more automatic way for creating predefined build configuration can be performed with so called <<generators, Generators>>. Generators are very flexible and can be easily created. These are described in an extra <<generators, section>>. Note that if you're providing your own XML image configuration, it would be given more precedence. Generators won't be used in case you're already using your own custom image configuration.

Global configuration parameters specify overall behavior common for all images to build. Some of the configuration options are shared with other goals.

.Global configuration
[cols="1,5,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Property

| *buildStrategy*
a| Defines what build strategy to choose while building container image.
Possible values are `docker` and `jib` out of which `docker` is default.

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
If the effective <<build-mode,mode>> is `openshift` an additional `s2i` option is available
and selected by default.

Available strategies for OpenShift are:

* `s2i` for a https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#source-build[Source-to-Image build] with a binary source
* `docker` for a https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#docker-build[Docker build] with a binary source

endif::[]
| `jkube.build.strategy`

| *apiVersion*
| Use this variable if you are using an older version of docker not compatible with the current default use to
  communicate with the server.
| `jkube.docker.apiVersion`

 | *authConfig*
| Authentication information when pulling from or pushing to Docker registry. There is a dedicated section
  <<authentication, Authentication>> for how to do security.
|

| *autoPull*
a| Decide how to pull missing base images or images to start:

 * `on` : Automatic download any missing images (default)
 * `off` : Automatic pulling is switched off
 * `always` : Pull images always even when they already exist locally
 * `once` : For multi-module builds images are only checked once and pulled for the whole build.

| `jkube.docker.autoPull`

| *buildRecreate*
a| If the effective <<build-mode,mode>> is `openshift` then this option decides how the OpenShift resource objects
   associated with the build should be treated when they already exist:

* `buildConfig` or `bc` : Only the BuildConfig is recreated
* `imageStream` or `is` : Only the ImageStream is recreated
* `all` : Both, BuildConfig and ImageStream are recreated
* `none` : Neither BuildConfig nor ImageStream is recreated

The default is `none`. If you provide the property without value then `all` is assumed, so everything gets recreated.
| `jkube.build.recreate`


ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
|*forcePull*
|
Applicable only for OpenShift, S2I build strategy.

While creating a BuildConfig, By default, if the builder image specified in the
build configuration is available locally on the node, that image will be used.

Using forcePull will override the local image and refresh it from the registry the image stream points to.

|`jkube.build.forcePull`
endif::[]

| [[image-pull-policy]] *imagePullPolicy*
a| Specify whether images should be pull when looking for base images while building or images for starting.
This property can take the following values (case insensitive):

* `IfNotPresent`: Automatic download any missing images (default)
* `Never` : Automatic pulling is switched off always
* `Always` : Pull images always even when they already exist locally.

By default a progress meter is printed out on the console, which is omitted when using Maven in batch mode (option `-B`). A very simplified progress meter is provided when using no color output (i.e. with `-Djkube.useColor=false`).
| `jkube.docker.imagePullPolicy`

| *certPath*
| Path to SSL certificate when SSL is used for communicating with the Docker daemon. These certificates are normally
  stored in `~/.docker/`. With this configuration the path can be set explicitly. If not set, the fallback is first
  taken from the environment variable `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` and then as last resort `~/.docker/`. The keys in this are
  expected with it standard names `ca.pem`, `cert.pem` and `key.pem`.
  Please refer to the https://docs.docker.com/articles/https[Docker documentation] for more information about SSL
  security with Docker.
| `jkube.docker.certPath`

| *dockerHost*
a| The URL of the Docker Daemon. If this configuration option is not given, then the optional `<machine>` configuration
section is consulted. The scheme of the URL can be either given directly as `http` or `https`
depending on whether plain HTTP communication is enabled or SSL should
be used. Alternatively the scheme could be `tcp` in which case the
protocol is determined via the IANA assigned port: 2375 for `http`
and 2376 for `https`. Finally, Unix sockets are supported by using
the scheme `unix` together with the filesystem path to the unix socket.

The discovery sequence used by the docker-maven-plugin to determine
the URL is:

. Value of *dockerHost* (`jkube.docker.host`)
. The Docker host associated with the docker-machine named in `<machine>`, i.e. the `DOCKER_HOST` from `docker-machine env`. See <<docker-machine,below>> for more information about Docker machine support.
. The value of the environment variable `DOCKER_HOST`.
. `unix:///var/run/docker.sock` if it is a readable socket.
| `jkube.docker.host`

| *filter*
| In order to temporarily restrict the operation of plugin goals this configuration option can be used.
  Typically this will be set via the system property `jkube.image.filter` when Maven is called. The value can be a single
  image name (either its alias or full name) or it can be a comma separated list with multiple image names. Any name
  which doesn't refer an image in the configuration will be ignored.
| `jkube.image.filter`

| *machine*
| Docker machine configuration. See <<docker-machine, Docker Machine>> for possible values.
|

| *maxConnections*
| Number of parallel connections are allowed to be opened to the Docker Host. For parsing log output, a connection needs
  to be kept open (as well for the wait features), so don't put that number to low. Default is 100 which should be
  suitable for most of the cases.
| `jkube.docker.maxConnections`

| *access*
| Group of configuration parameters to connect to Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster.
|

| *outputDirectory*
| Default output directory to be used by this plugin.
  The default value is `target/docker` and is only used for the goal `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.build.target.dir`

| *profile*
| Profile to which contains enricher and generators configuration. See <<profiles,Profiles>> for details.
| `jkube.profile`

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
| *pullSecret*
| The name to use for naming pullSecret to be created to pull the base image in case pulling from a private registry
   which requires authentication for OpenShift.

  The default value for pull registry will be picked from `jkube.docker.pull.registry`/`jkube.docker.registry`.
| `jkube.build.pullSecret`
endif::[]

| *registry*
| Specify globally a registry to use for pulling and pushing images. See <<registry,Registry handling>> for details.
| `jkube.docker.registry`

| *skip*
| With this parameter the execution of this plugin can be skipped completely.
| `jkube.skip`

| *skipBuild*
| If set not images will be build (which implies also _skip.tag_) with `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.skip.build`

| *skipBuildPom*
| If set the build step will be skipped for modules of type `pom`. If not set, then by default projects of type `pom`
  will be skipped if there are no image configurations contained.
| `jkube.skip.build.pom`

| *skipTag*
| If set to `true` this plugin won't add any tags to images that have been built with `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.skip.tag`

| *skipMachine*
| Skip using docker machine in any case
| `jkube.docker.skip.machine`

| *sourceDirectory*
| Default directory that contains the assembly descriptor(s) used by the plugin. The default value is `src/main/docker`.
  This option is only relevant for the `{goal-prefix}:build` goal.
| `jkube.build.source.dir`

| *verbose*
| Boolean attribute for switching on verbose output like the build steps when doing a Docker build. Default is `false`.
| `jkube.docker.verbose`

| *logDate*
| The date format to use when logging messages from Docker. Default is `DEFAULT` (`HH:mm:ss.SSS`)
| `jkube.docker.logDate`

| *logStdout*
| Log to stdout regardless if log files are configured or not. Default is `false`.
| `jkube.docker.logStdout`

|===

=== Kubernetes Access Configuration

You can configure parameters to define how plugin is going to connect to Kubernetes cluster instead of relying on default parameters.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
<configuration>
  <access>
    <username></username>
    <password></password>
    <masterUrl></masterUrl>
    <apiVersion></apiVersion>
  </access>
</configuration>
----

[cols="1,5,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Property

| *username*
| Username on which to operate.
| `jkube.username`

| *password*
| Password on which to operate.
| `jkube.password`

| *namespace*
| Namespace on which to operate.
| `jkube.namespace`

| *masterUrl*
| Master URL on which to operate.
| `jkube.masterUrl`

| *apiVersion*
| Api version on which to operate.
| `jkube.apiVersion`

| *caCertFile*
| CaCert File on which to operate.
| `jkube.caCertFile`

| *caCertData*
| CaCert Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.caCertData`

| *clientCertFile*
| Client Cert File on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientCertFile`

| *clientCertData*
| Client Cert Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientCertData`

| *clientKeyFile*
| Client Key File on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyFile`

| *clientKeyData*
| Client Key Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyData`

| *clientKeyAlgo*
| Client Key Algorithm on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyAlgo`

| *clientKeyPassphrase*
| Client Key Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyPassphrase`

| *trustStoreFile*
| Trust Store File on which to operate.
| `jkube.trustStoreFile`

| *trustStorePassphrase*
| Trust Store Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.trustStorePassphrase`

| *keyStoreFile*
| Key Store File on which to operate.
| `jkube.keyStoreFile`

| *keyStorePassphrase*
| Key Store Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.keyStorePassphrase`
|===

=== Image Configuration

The configuration how images should be created a defined in a dedicated `<images>` sections. These are specified for
each image within the `<images>` element of the configuration with one `<image>` element per image to use.

The `<image>` element can contain the following sub elements:

include::../../image/_configuration.adoc[]

The `<build>` section is mandatory and is explained in <<build-configuration, below>>.

include::../../image/_naming.adoc[]
include::../../image/_example.adoc[]

[[build-configuration]]
=== Build Configuration

include::../../build/_overview.adoc[]

include::../../build/_configuration.adoc[]

[[build-assembly]]
=== Assembly

include::../../build/_assembly.adoc[]

[[misc-env]]
=== Environment and Labels

include::../../misc/_env.adoc[]

[[misc-startup]]
=== Startup Arguments

include::../../misc/_startup.adoc[]

INFO:: Startup arguments are not used in S2I builds

[[build-buildargs]]
=== Build Args

include::../../build/_buildargs.adoc[]

[[build-healthcheck]]
=== Healthcheck

include::../../build/_healthcheck.adoc[]

Commit message:

Add DockerImage Kind in BuildOutput (#710)
* Add DockerImage Kind in BuildOutput

* Fix throws Exception

* Update jkube-kit/config/service/src/test/java/org/eclipse/jkube/kit/config/service/openshift/OpenshiftBuildServiceTest.java

Co-authored-by: Rohan Kumar  <rohan.kumar.kanojia@gmail.com>

* Update jkube-kit/config/service/src/test/java/org/eclipse/jkube/kit/config/service/openshift/OpenshiftBuildServiceTest.java

Co-authored-by: Rohan Kumar  <rohan.kumar.kanojia@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Rohan Kumar  <rohan.kumar.kanojia@gmail.com>

kubernetes-maven-plugin/doc/src/main/asciidoc/inc/goals/build/_jkube-build.adoc, after:


[[jkube:build]]
== *{goal-prefix}:build*

This goal is for building Docker images.

[[build-kubernetes]]
=== Kubernetes Build

A normal Docker build is performed by default. The connection configuration to
access the Docker daemon is described in <<access-configuration, Access Configuration>>.

In order to make the generated images available to the Kubernetes cluster the generated images need to be pushed to a
registry with the goal <<jkube:push>>. This is not necessary for single node clusters, though as there is no need to
distribute images.

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
[[build-openshift]]
=== OpenShift Build

For the `openshift` mode, OpenShift specific
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html[builds] will be
performed. These are so called
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html[Binary Source]
builds ("binary builds" in short), where the data specified with the <<build-configuration, build configuration>>  is
sent directly to OpenShift as a binary archive.

There are two kind of binary builds supported by this plugin, which can be selected with the `buildStrategy` configuration option (`jkube.build.strategy` property)

.Build Strategies
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| `buildStrategy` | Description

| `s2i`
| The https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#source-build[Source-to-Image] (S2I) build strategy uses so called builder images for creating new application images from binary build data. The builder image to use is taken from the base image configuration specified with <<build-config-from, from>> in the image build configuration. See below for a list of builder images which can be used with this plugin.

| `docker`
| A https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#docker-build[Docker Build] is similar to a normal Docker build except that it is done by the OpenShift cluster and not by a Docker daemon. In addition this build pushes the generated image to the OpenShift internal registry so that it is accessbile in the whole cluster.
|===

Both build strategies update an
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#image-streams[Image Stream]
after the image creation.

The https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/dev_guide/builds.html#defining-a-buildconfig[Build Config] and
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#image-streams[Image streams]
can be managed by this plugin. If they do not exist, they will be automatically created by `{goal-prefix}:build`.
If they do already exist, they are reused, except when the `buildRecreate` configuration option
(property `jkube.build.recreate`) is set to a value as described in <<build-goal-configuration, Configuration>>.
Also if the provided build strategy is different than the one defined in the existing build configuration, the Build
Config is edited to reflect the new type (which in turn removes all build associated with the previous build).

This image stream created can then be directly referenced from
https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/deployments.html#deployments-and-deployment-configurations[Deployment Configuration]
objects created by <<jkube:resource>>.
By default, image streams are created with a local lookup policy, so that they can be used also by other resources such
as Deployments or StatefulSets.
This behavior can be turned off by setting the `jkube.s2i.imageStreamLookupPolicyLocal` property to `false` when building
the project.

In order to be able to create these OpenShift resource objects access to an OpenShift installation is required.
The access parameters are described in <<access-configuration, Access Configuration>>.

Regardless of which build mode is used, the images are configured in the same way.

The configuration consists of two parts:

* a global section which defines the overall behaviour of this plugin
* and an `<images>` section which defines how the images should be build

Many of the options below are relevant for the <<build-kubernetes, Kubernetes Workflow>> or the <<build-openshift, OpenShift Workflow>> with Docker builds as they influence how the Docker image is build.

For an S2I binary build, on the other hand, the most relevant section is the <<build-assembly, Assembly>> one because the build depends on which buider/base image is used and how it interprets the content of the uploaded `docker.tar`.

[[setting-quota-openshift-build]]
==== Setting Quotas for OpenShift Build
You can also limit resource use by specifying resource limits as part of the build configuration. You can do this by providing `<openshiftBuildConfig>` field in `<resource>` configuration. Below is an example on how to do this:

.Example of OpenShift S2I Build resource/limit Configuration
[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    <resources>
         <openshiftBuildConfig>
            <requests> <!--1-->
              <cpu>500m</cpu> <!--2-->
              <memory>512Mi</memory> <!--3-->
            </requests>
            <limits> <!--4-->
              <cpu>1000m</cpu> <!--5-->
              <memory>1Gi</memory> <!--6-->
            </limits>
         </openshiftBuildConfig>
    </resources>
</configuration>
----

<1> Request field which maps to created BuildConfig's `.spec.resources.requests`
<2> Minimum CPU required by Build Pod
<3> Minimum memory required by Build Pod
<4> Limits field which maps to created BuildConfig's (`.spec.resources.limits`)
<5> Maximum CPU required by Build Pod
<6> Maximum memory required by Build Pod

It's also possible to provide a `buildconfig.yml` BuildConfig resource fragment in `src/main/jkube` directory like this:

.BuildConfig fragment Example(`buildconfig.yml`)
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "600m"
      memory: "512Mi"
    requests:
      cpu: "500m"
      memory: "300Mi"
----
endif::[]

[[build-goal-configuration]]
=== Configuration (XML)

The following sections describe the usual configuration, which is similar to the build configuration used in the
 https://dmp.fabric8.io[docker-maven-plugin].

In addition a more automatic way for creating predefined build configuration can be performed with so called <<generators, Generators>>. Generators are very flexible and can be easily created. These are described in an extra <<generators, section>>. Note that if you're providing your own XML image configuration, it would be given more precedence. Generators won't be used in case you're already using your own custom image configuration.

Global configuration parameters specify overall behavior common for all images to build. Some of the configuration options are shared with other goals.

.Global configuration
[cols="1,5,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Property

| *buildStrategy*
a| Defines what build strategy to choose while building container image.
Possible values are `docker` and `jib` out of which `docker` is default.

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
If the effective <<build-mode,mode>> is `openshift` an additional `s2i` option is available
and selected by default.

Available strategies for OpenShift are:

* `s2i` for a https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#source-build[Source-to-Image build] with a binary source
* `docker` for a https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/latest/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#docker-build[Docker build] with a binary source

endif::[]
| `jkube.build.strategy`

| *apiVersion*
| Use this variable if you are using an older version of docker not compatible with the current default use to
  communicate with the server.
| `jkube.docker.apiVersion`

 | *authConfig*
| Authentication information when pulling from or pushing to Docker registry. There is a dedicated section
  <<authentication, Authentication>> for how to do security.
|

| *autoPull*
a| Decide how to pull missing base images or images to start:

 * `on` : Automatic download any missing images (default)
 * `off` : Automatic pulling is switched off
 * `always` : Pull images always even when they already exist locally
 * `once` : For multi-module builds images are only checked once and pulled for the whole build.

| `jkube.docker.autoPull`

| *buildRecreate*
a| If the effective <<build-mode,mode>> is `openshift` then this option decides how the OpenShift resource objects
   associated with the build should be treated when they already exist:

* `buildConfig` or `bc` : Only the BuildConfig is recreated
* `imageStream` or `is` : Only the ImageStream is recreated
* `all` : Both, BuildConfig and ImageStream are recreated
* `none` : Neither BuildConfig nor ImageStream is recreated

The default is `none`. If you provide the property without value then `all` is assumed, so everything gets recreated.
| `jkube.build.recreate`


ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
|*forcePull*
|
Applicable only for OpenShift, S2I build strategy.

While creating a BuildConfig, By default, if the builder image specified in the
build configuration is available locally on the node, that image will be used.

Using forcePull will override the local image and refresh it from the registry the image stream points to.

|`jkube.build.forcePull`
endif::[]

| [[image-pull-policy]] *imagePullPolicy*
a| Specify whether images should be pull when looking for base images while building or images for starting.
This property can take the following values (case insensitive):

* `IfNotPresent`: Automatic download any missing images (default)
* `Never` : Automatic pulling is switched off always
* `Always` : Pull images always even when they already exist locally.

By default a progress meter is printed out on the console, which is omitted when using Maven in batch mode (option `-B`). A very simplified progress meter is provided when using no color output (i.e. with `-Djkube.useColor=false`).
| `jkube.docker.imagePullPolicy`

| *certPath*
| Path to SSL certificate when SSL is used for communicating with the Docker daemon. These certificates are normally
  stored in `~/.docker/`. With this configuration the path can be set explicitly. If not set, the fallback is first
  taken from the environment variable `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` and then as last resort `~/.docker/`. The keys in this are
  expected with it standard names `ca.pem`, `cert.pem` and `key.pem`.
  Please refer to the https://docs.docker.com/articles/https[Docker documentation] for more information about SSL
  security with Docker.
| `jkube.docker.certPath`

| *dockerHost*
a| The URL of the Docker Daemon. If this configuration option is not given, then the optional `<machine>` configuration
section is consulted. The scheme of the URL can be either given directly as `http` or `https`
depending on whether plain HTTP communication is enabled or SSL should
be used. Alternatively the scheme could be `tcp` in which case the
protocol is determined via the IANA assigned port: 2375 for `http`
and 2376 for `https`. Finally, Unix sockets are supported by using
the scheme `unix` together with the filesystem path to the unix socket.

The discovery sequence used by the docker-maven-plugin to determine
the URL is:

. Value of *dockerHost* (`jkube.docker.host`)
. The Docker host associated with the docker-machine named in `<machine>`, i.e. the `DOCKER_HOST` from `docker-machine env`. See <<docker-machine,below>> for more information about Docker machine support.
. The value of the environment variable `DOCKER_HOST`.
. `unix:///var/run/docker.sock` if it is a readable socket.
| `jkube.docker.host`

| *filter*
| In order to temporarily restrict the operation of plugin goals this configuration option can be used.
  Typically this will be set via the system property `jkube.image.filter` when Maven is called. The value can be a single
  image name (either its alias or full name) or it can be a comma separated list with multiple image names. Any name
  which doesn't refer an image in the configuration will be ignored.
| `jkube.image.filter`

| *machine*
| Docker machine configuration. See <<docker-machine, Docker Machine>> for possible values.
|

| *maxConnections*
| Number of parallel connections are allowed to be opened to the Docker Host. For parsing log output, a connection needs
  to be kept open (as well for the wait features), so don't put that number to low. Default is 100 which should be
  suitable for most of the cases.
| `jkube.docker.maxConnections`

| *access*
| Group of configuration parameters to connect to Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster.
|

| *outputDirectory*
| Default output directory to be used by this plugin.
  The default value is `target/docker` and is only used for the goal `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.build.target.dir`

| *profile*
| Profile to which contains enricher and generators configuration. See <<profiles,Profiles>> for details.
| `jkube.profile`

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
| *pullSecret*
| The name to use for naming pullSecret to be created to pull the base image in case pulling from a private registry
   which requires authentication for OpenShift.

  The default value for pull registry will be picked from `jkube.docker.pull.registry`/`jkube.docker.registry`.
| `jkube.build.pullSecret`
endif::[]

ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
| *pushSecret*
| The name of pushSecret to be used to push the final image in case pushing from a
  protected registry which requires authentication.

| `jkube.build.pushSecret`
endif::[]


ifeval::["{goal-prefix}" == "oc"]
| *jkube.build.buildOutput.kind*
|  Allow to specify in which registry to push the container image at the end of the build.
   If the output kind is ImageStreamTag, then the image will be pushed to the internal OpenShift registry.
   If the output is of type DockerImage, then the name of the output reference will be used as a Docker push specification.
   The default value is `ImageStreamTag`

| `jkube.build.buildOutput.kind`
endif::[]

| *registry*
| Specify globally a registry to use for pulling and pushing images. See <<registry,Registry handling>> for details.
| `jkube.docker.registry`

| *skip*
| With this parameter the execution of this plugin can be skipped completely.
| `jkube.skip`

| *skipBuild*
| If set not images will be build (which implies also _skip.tag_) with `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.skip.build`

| *skipBuildPom*
| If set the build step will be skipped for modules of type `pom`. If not set, then by default projects of type `pom`
  will be skipped if there are no image configurations contained.
| `jkube.skip.build.pom`

| *skipTag*
| If set to `true` this plugin won't add any tags to images that have been built with `{goal-prefix}:build`.
| `jkube.skip.tag`

| *skipMachine*
| Skip using docker machine in any case
| `jkube.docker.skip.machine`

| *sourceDirectory*
| Default directory that contains the assembly descriptor(s) used by the plugin. The default value is `src/main/docker`.
  This option is only relevant for the `{goal-prefix}:build` goal.
| `jkube.build.source.dir`

| *verbose*
| Boolean attribute for switching on verbose output like the build steps when doing a Docker build. Default is `false`.
| `jkube.docker.verbose`

| *logDate*
| The date format to use when logging messages from Docker. Default is `DEFAULT` (`HH:mm:ss.SSS`)
| `jkube.docker.logDate`

| *logStdout*
| Log to stdout regardless if log files are configured or not. Default is `false`.
| `jkube.docker.logStdout`

|===

=== Kubernetes Access Configuration

You can configure parameters to define how plugin is going to connect to Kubernetes cluster instead of relying on default parameters.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
<configuration>
  <access>
    <username></username>
    <password></password>
    <masterUrl></masterUrl>
    <apiVersion></apiVersion>
  </access>
</configuration>
----

[cols="1,5,1"]
|===
| Element | Description | Property

| *username*
| Username on which to operate.
| `jkube.username`

| *password*
| Password on which to operate.
| `jkube.password`

| *namespace*
| Namespace on which to operate.
| `jkube.namespace`

| *masterUrl*
| Master URL on which to operate.
| `jkube.masterUrl`

| *apiVersion*
| Api version on which to operate.
| `jkube.apiVersion`

| *caCertFile*
| CaCert File on which to operate.
| `jkube.caCertFile`

| *caCertData*
| CaCert Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.caCertData`

| *clientCertFile*
| Client Cert File on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientCertFile`

| *clientCertData*
| Client Cert Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientCertData`

| *clientKeyFile*
| Client Key File on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyFile`

| *clientKeyData*
| Client Key Data on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyData`

| *clientKeyAlgo*
| Client Key Algorithm on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyAlgo`

| *clientKeyPassphrase*
| Client Key Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.clientKeyPassphrase`

| *trustStoreFile*
| Trust Store File on which to operate.
| `jkube.trustStoreFile`

| *trustStorePassphrase*
| Trust Store Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.trustStorePassphrase`

| *keyStoreFile*
| Key Store File on which to operate.
| `jkube.keyStoreFile`

| *keyStorePassphrase*
| Key Store Passphrase on which to operate.
| `jkube.keyStorePassphrase`
|===

=== Image Configuration

The configuration how images should be created a defined in a dedicated `<images>` sections. These are specified for
each image within the `<images>` element of the configuration with one `<image>` element per image to use.

The `<image>` element can contain the following sub elements:

include::../../image/_configuration.adoc[]

The `<build>` section is mandatory and is explained in <<build-configuration, below>>.

include::../../image/_naming.adoc[]
include::../../image/_example.adoc[]

[[build-configuration]]
=== Build Configuration

include::../../build/_overview.adoc[]

include::../../build/_configuration.adoc[]

[[build-assembly]]
=== Assembly

include::../../build/_assembly.adoc[]

[[misc-env]]
=== Environment and Labels

include::../../misc/_env.adoc[]

[[misc-startup]]
=== Startup Arguments

include::../../misc/_startup.adoc[]

INFO:: Startup arguments are not used in S2I builds

[[build-buildargs]]
=== Build Args

include::../../build/_buildargs.adoc[]

[[build-healthcheck]]
=== Healthcheck

include::../../build/_healthcheck.adoc[]
